Document execution_context feature (#120894)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/troubleshooting.asciidoc

}
----
You are interested in the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-tracing.html#field-trace-id[trace.id] field, which is a unique identifier of a trace. The `trace.id` provides a way to group multiple events, like transactions, which belong together. You can search for `"trace":{"id":"9b99131a6f66587971ef085ef97dfd07"}` to get all the logs that belong to the same trace. This enables you to see how many {es} requests were triggered during the `9b99131a6f66587971ef085ef97dfd07` trace, what they looked like, what {es} endpoints were hit, and so on.

== Trace {es} query to the origin in {kib}

> Sometimes the {es} server might be slowed down by the execution of an expensive query. Such queries are logged to {es}'s https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/index-modules-slowlog.html#search-slow-log[Search Slow Log] file. But there is a problem: it's impossible to say who triggered a slow search request - a {kib} instance or a user accessing an {es} endpoint directly.

Reviewer: There should be a syntax to link to the ES docs and have the correct version automatically applied instead of defaulting to `current`. I think it's something like this (haven't tested):

```
{ref}/index-modules-slowlog.html[Search Slow Log]
```

Reviewer 2: ++, The correct syntax for the [current ES](https://github.com/elastic/docs/blob/master/shared/attributes.asciidoc#L1) docs is: 
`{ref}` -> `https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/{branch}`

> To simplify the investigation of such cases, https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/index-modules-slowlog.html#search-slow-log[Search Slow Log] file includes the `x-opaque-id` header that might provide additional information about a request if it originated from {kib}.

Reviewer 3: Since you linked to search slow log in the first line, you don't need to link to it here.

WARNING: At the moment, {kib} can only highlight cases where a slow query originated from a {kib} visualization, Lens, Discover, or {kib} Alerting.

For example, if a request to {es} was initiated by a Vega visualization on a Dashboard, you will see in the slow logs:

> `"souce": { "id": "c89d1ab3-b4a7-4920-a64a-22a910a413b0;kibana:application:dashboard:edf84fe0-e1a0-11e7-b6d5-4dc382ef7f5b;visualization:Vega:cb099a20-ea66-11eb-9425-113343a037e3" }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`"source": { "id": "c89d1ab3-b4a7-4920-a64a-22a910a413b0;kibana:application:dashboard:edf84fe0-e1a0-11e7-b6d5-4dc382ef7f5b;visualization:Vega:cb099a20-ea66-11eb-9425-113343a037e3" }`
```

> Let’s look closer at the format of the string.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Take a closer at the format of the string.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take a closer look at the format of the string.
```

The id value starts with  `c89d1ab3-b4a7-4920-a64a-22a910a413b0`, which is a unique identifier of a request set by the Kibana server.
The part after the `kibana` prefix tells us that the request was triggered by Dashboard with id `edf84fe0-e1a0-11e7-b6d5-4dc382ef7f5b` and Vega visualisation with id `cb099a20-ea66-11eb-9425-113343a037e3`.

If the provided information is not enough to identify a visualization to adjust its parameters, you can configure {kib} logs to provide a human-readable description and a link to a source of the request:
[source,yml]
----
logging:
  loggers:
    - name: execution_context
      level: debug
      appenders: [console]
----

> Now, you can see the request to {es} has been initiated by `[Logs] Unique Visitor Heatmap` visualization embedded in `[Logs] Web Traffic` dashboard. You can navigate to the provided URL to change some parameters of the visualization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, you can see the request to {es} has been initiated by the `[Logs] Unique Visitor Heatmap` visualization embedded in the `[Logs] Web Traffic` dashboard. You can navigate to the provided URL to change some parameters of the visualization.
```

[source,text]
----

> [DEBUG][execution_context] stored the execution context: {"parent":{"type":"application","name":"dashboard","id":"edf84fe0-e1a0-11e7-b6d5-4dc382ef7f5b","description":"[Logs] Web Traffic","url":"/view/edf84fe0-e1a0-11e7-b6d5-4dc382ef7f5b"},"type":"visualization","name":"Vega","id":"cb099a20-ea66-11eb-9425-113343a037e3","description":"[Logs] Unique Visitor Heatmap","url":"/app/visualize#/edit/cb099a20-ea66-11eb-9425-113343a037e3"}

Reviewer 3: Can you put line breaks in this so it is easier to read?

Author: I can, however, we don't format log output
